All right,
let's talk about headers and cookers.
So inside your load function,
as well as inside form actions and
API route and hooks, which are things that
we'll learn about later in the workshop.
You have access to a set headers function,
which does exactly what you would expect.
The most common thing that you would use,
set headers for is to set a cache control
header on the response so
that data doesn't need to be re requested.
But we can't really demonstrate
that in this context, so
we're gonna do something
a little bit more dramatic.
We're gonna change the content type of
the response, To text slash plane and
we're gonna need to reload the page so
that we can see that.
You see that it's no longer giving us an
HTML response that the browser can render,
it's giving us some plain text instead.
And one thing you can't use the SetHeaders
function for is to set cookies.
Instead you should use the cookies
API which is also available in all
of the same places that set headers is.
So in page server Jas we're
gonna bring in the cookies API.
And we're gonna replace this const visited
equals false line with something based
on the cookies that were sent from
the browser to the server when the page is
requested.
Cookies get visited.
And then after the first time the user
visits we're gonna set that cookie to true
so that when they come back,
we'll recognize them.
We do that with cookies.set visited,
give it a value of true.
And you should always set a path on your
cookies because the browser's default
behavior is to set the path.
On whatever the parent of the path that
you're visiting is which is not very
helpful.
Most of the time you wanna set your
cookies on the root of your application.
We can now see that when we return
visited, if the user has visited the page
before, they are no longer stranger,
they are friend.
Now, the reason we use this cookies API
instead of interacting with headers is
that not only does cookies set cause a set
cookie header to be added to the response.
It also updates the internal map so that
if you call cookies.get inside another
load function that is also
involved in rendering this page.
It will be current with the cookie
that was set previously.
You have a bunch of options
that you can pass here,
we're using the cookie package under
the hood, which you can find on npm.
But we're adding some defaults to make the
behavior of your application more secure.
Specifically, we're making all of
your cookies HTTP only by default,
we're setting secure to true.
Except when you're on local host,
and we're setting same site to lax.
These defaults will protect your users
from their cookies being leaked.
>> To clarify about the thing
you said with the cookies, so
if I set a cookie in a layout,
then I can reference it?
Even though it's not actually
in the request cookies,
I can reference it as if it
was in a page server file?
>> So as long as you, so
there's like a potential race condition
because the load functions
run simultaneously.
And so if you set the cookie
asynchronously after it's been
requested in the load function,
then that's a bug.
And actually that's probably
a bug that we could catch and
throw an error in that situation because
that is actually quite a nasty bug.
But more typically, the way that
you would use that is inside your,
server hook, which we'll cover later on.
You would do something like event
dot locals dot user equals get user,
from my cookies.
If that doesn't exist, then we set a
cookie and then inside your load function,
the cookie has been set because your hook
always runs before your load function.
But we'll get into all
of that stuff later on.
It's also useful when you're dealing with
form actions because if you have a login
action, for example,
you might set a cookie inside that action.
And then when the load function is
subsequently called the cookie will
have been set by the time you
read it in the load function.
So that's why we use the cookies
API as opposed to relying on
a fresh request coming in.
>> When working with input dependent data,
what is the best approach to loading it?
For instance, on a search page, should the
user's input be handled with a promise on
the component or with a data object?
>> It depends on the UI that
you're trying to achieve.
If you want the results to be
streamed in as the user is typing,
then you would want to have that
logic inside the component,
and you would have all of
the async handling there.
The way that I tend to build search
inputs is, I'll just use a regular
form that causes the data to be
loaded inside a load function.
And so you have to type in the search
query and then hit enter, for
me I just find that to be
a preferable user experience.
It also happens to be much easier to
implement because you don't need to deal
with any of the async logic.
SvelteKit takes care of it for you but
it depends,
there's no canonically right answer.
So because SvelteKit uses directory based
routing, it's easy to place modules and
components alongside
the routes that use them.
I find a good rule of thumb when figuring
out where to put code is like put code
close to where it's being used.
But sometimes code is being used in
multiple places and when that happens you
don't wanna have to do ../ ../ ../
../ to get a reference to the module.
It's nice to have a place to put that
stuff that is common to all your routes,
and SvelteKit that place is
the source/lib directory.
Anything inside this directory
can be accessed by any module in
source via the lib alias.
So both of these page.svelte files
are importing a file from source.slashlib,
they're trying to get
a hold of this message.
And the home page is doing it right, but
if we navigate to this deeply nested root,
we get an error from vite telling
us that it's failed to import.
And that's because we've got
the wrong number of dot dot slashes,
we've got five when we should have four.
So, we could fix it by fixing
the number of dot dot slashes,
but it would be a hell of a lot nicer
if we could just use $lib instead.
So, get rid of all of that and
do the same in page.svel.
And that will work consistently for
all of the modules and
components in your lib folder.
So that's a nice place to put shared
utility components, utils, js file,
other things of that nature.